So we're gonna do a little bit more to do
that we're gonna do to make this even more
performant.
But any questions so far?
This is like the Hello World
of server side rendering.
Yeah.
>> Got a question, but
I just right now spent the last week and
a half figuring out how to make some
of our parts of our site do this.
To fix the user experience,
I appreciate seeing this.
Like icons slowly lagging,
like loading in that was just jarring to
the user as opposed to
just showing it off, and
slightly delaying when
they could click on it.
>> Yep, It's really frustrating for
a user to see something trying to interact
with it, and not have it be interactive,
cuz then they think it's broken.
>> Yeah, or I think it's also when it
moves out of the way all sudden, like you
go to Click and then the ad comes in and-
>> Like as a good reason, flare,
or flash of unstyled text, or
flash of unstyled content, right?
All sorts of reasons for
why that can happen.
But yeah, if you're taking enough time
there that a user can see something,
make a decision and try and do it,
they're either gonna think
that they're doing it wrong.
Or they're thinking I think,
that you suck which is the more
correct thing to think, right?
You might ask me what happens, Brian,
if I go to slash something
like a non-valid thing right?
Right now it's just gonna be a giant
error, and it's not gonna work.
Now you can make React handle this,
you can make React Router, deal with hey,
404, didn't find this, I'll redirect
you to the homepage, you can do that.
And you can see how to do that in the
React Router docs if you want to do that.
Here is the big problem with how to do at
the moment with React Router version 6.
That was not a problem
with React version 5.
StaticRouter used to let you pass in
a context object that allows you to then
read afterwards.
Hey, how'd the rendering go, right?
So you can then ask yourself okay, cool.
Did I 404, did I 500?
And then here you could have said
res.status, 500 if it went wrong.
This is a positive thing
because if you tell Google hey,
200, Google's like cool,
I'm gonna update your SEO for this, right?
So if you're on a serious website,
you do have to care about that.
Or 400 or 300 or
something like that, right?
If you do a redirect.
Right now, the way that we have this
right now, it's gonna 200 on everything.
So you're always telling Google,
please update my SEO right now.
This is still possible to do
with React Router version 6,
I dropped the link in there if you
wanna go in and actually dig into it.
It's pretty involved now and
it used to be really easy, and
now it's hard,
I'm a little peeved about that.
Cuz I don't like it when you
take something away from
a user that was really nice to have.
Basically their reasoning is hey,
we made Remix, you should use Remix.
That's on them.
Remix is very cool to be fair, but, okay,
So we just did server side rendering -1,
which is like the Hello World.
We're gonna take this a step further and
we're gonna do streaming now,
which is a little bit cooler.
We're all about cool code here.
We do stuff because it is cool.
[LAUGH] That's funny that's literally
my first line of my notes here.
I'm not joking, I'm such a nerd.
[LAUGH] I just need to
prove my point to you.
I'm just a damn broken record.
Anyway, let's make it cool.
So what we're gonna do,
go back to your code here.
So instead of doing render to string,
we're gonna do render to node stream.
A stream is a data type inside of inside
of node, that this is what it sounds like.
It's kind of like a bash stream or
like a command line stream,
where data progressively arrives, right?
As opposed to render to string
just like it does everything and
then spits out the entire
thing at the end.
Node stream is going to progressively
give you pieces as it renders it.
With the advent of HTTP version 2,
we can stream mark-up to the users.
So we can have long live connections
like here's a little bit more,
here's a little bit more,
here's a little bit more.
Okay, I'm done right?
As opposed to HTTP 1.1 was just like,
here's everything all at once.
Now if we had a giant application, for
example, something like LinkedIn or
Facebook, this is a massive deal, right?
Because there's so
many things coming down.
We're sending down literally probably 50
kilobytes of just straight up HTML, right?
This makes a big difference.
For application it might even be slower,
so
this is probably a bad idea,
but it's fine.
So we're gonna modify I think pretty
much just this part right here, so
you can probably just, Delete at least
this part down here at the bottom.
The first thing we're gonna
do here at the top is
we're gonna say res.write(parts[0]).
So why?
Why are we doing this immediately?
Well, one,
we already know what it is, right?
If you look at our index.html, in fact,
now we have a built version,
so let's look at that.
dist, front end index.HTML,
up into not rendered.
This part we already know all of this,
right?
This never changes,
we can just send them this immediately.
Why this is actually critical and
a big part of the web
performance is what is in here?
The stylesheet just lets the browser
go ahead and get started and
loading all the CSS while we're still
figuring out the rest of the node markup.
So this actually can be a pretty
big win performance wise
because the user immediately
starts getting the CSS.
So we're kind of multitasking now,
as opposed to them getting all
of the market all at once.
The browser then starts parsing,
hits the CSS, it's not paying attention to
the rest of the DOM at all until
it finishes parsing all of this.
It finishes downloading and then parsing
all the CSS, and then it continues, right?
Unless you're doing something like preload
or prefetch or something like that, but
suffice to say that can be kind of slow,
particularly on like a low end device and
if you have a lot of CSS.
By doing this, we get to get them
started on that immediately,
then we render all of our code.
Okay, so we do that.
Honestly, this might be the biggest
win of the entire thing with Velum.
What am about to show you.
Then I'm gonna say const stream =
renderToNodeStream(reactMarkup).
This is gonna kick off the node render and
it's just gonna start spitting out
parts as soon as it's done with it.
Okay, and
then I'm gonna say stream.pipe, so
I'm going to connect that
stream to the user via this.
Critically I have to tell it,
this is not the end.
I got more stuff to do as soon as you're
done click to finish parts, right?
So you just say end: false,
otherwise as soon as it finishes
streaming this it's gonna say cool,
he's done or she's done or they're done,
and then just finish the stream.
Okay, then we're gonna say, stream.on and
so as soon as they're done with
this render to node stream,
finish it out there and
say, res.write(parts
1 Write the last bit of it, for
example, if you remember correctly.
Here in the index.html,
this is where the JavaScript is,
it's after the not rendered.
So very critical that you get that there.
And then here I'm gonna say res.end just
to let the stream know we have finished
the request, you can mark this
as a 200 and close it out.
Well, I guess it would have
already been marked as a 200.
But in any case, you can finish out
the request, you can close the connection.
Now, in case you didn't know that,
you actually never have
to end your connection.
You can keep sending stuff
to users via HTTP push.
In fact, there is a wonderful course on
Frontend Masters called the Complete Intro
to Real Time taught by a very dashing and
attractive teacher.
That I show you how to
do exactly just that.
Seems like a cool guy,
I hear he's cool, anyway.
Okay, so now this should work and
this should be streaming markup instead
of just one big payload all at once.
Critical here, make sure you stop and
start your server.
In fact, I probably should
have mentioned that earlier.
This is building your server
every single time and
it's also building your application.
So if you're making changes,
if I wanna do a console.log here,
This won't happen until I stop and
start the server again.
Again, this is what I told you, it's not
a great developer experience right now.
It'll take a bit to get that working,
but you would use something
like Node Daemon or Node demon or
Node demon, gotta catch them all.
There's no official way to pronounce that,
by the way, in case you're wondering,
it's however you choose to pronounce it.
Okay, so now localhost 3000.
We're not really gonna see a difference,
because it's all localhost and
going super fast.
But this has the potential be
a significant improvement in performance.
Now, I'm going to implore you, with code
splitting, with render to string and
render to node stream, measure it,
make sure that it actually is
a better performance thing.
I'm pretty sure that for
an app as small as Adopt Me is,
I think it's probably a net negative,
just my guess.
So you need a certain amount of heft,
you need to have some
intelligence in terms of how and
where you're splitting your application
for this to actually be effective.
But for example, when I was at Netflix,
we did measure it and
we made some pretty significant
gains in terms of signups, right?
Because there's a ton of research out
there that the faster your web performance
is, to a point, the better your
conversion rate's gonna be, so.
All right, that is server-side rendering.
Any questions?
Yeah?
>> The only question I have here so far
is, this is from about ten minutes ago.
What if production is not Express?
>> Okay, so I am showing you
everything in terms of Express.js,
which is just a pretty thin server
side framework for Node.js.
If you're coming from Ruby it's most
comparable to something like Sinatra,
where it's just really meant to
be as bare bones as possible.
It really looks just about the same,
because these req and res objects here,
request and response,
these are not Express objects.
These are actually directly
Node native objects.
Which is to say something like Fastify,
something like Restify,
they expose the same objects.
You can even write this in terms of HTTP,
right?
There's a import http from http,
which is the direct HTTP
library from Node.js itself.
Express does not do very much for you.
The reason why I even include in in
the first place is I did not wanna write
the Express static.
This line right here is 30 lines of
code that I just didn't wanna write.
Otherwise you could've just
done everything with HTTP.
So I guess my point being here is,
The exact syntax will vary from
framework to framework a little bit, but
the concept here is always the same.
Cool, okay, other questions?
>> Is SSR better for securing API keys?
>> Is server side rendering better for
securing API keys?
No, I mean, for an API key,
the point of an API key is so
you can make a request against an API.
And if you're gonna do that in
the browser, no matter what,
gotta send down the key.
There's no way to kind of obfuscate that.
You always have to have secure
API keys no matter what.
So it's either gonna be
behind your own API.
So for example, let's say I'm making
requests to the Google Maps API, right,
which is not free anymore.
I either have to hide it behind my own
API and hide my API key that way, or
I have to send it to the user,
which is bad cuz they're gonna steal it.
Someone's gonna steal it.
So yeah, let's go with no bearing.
Yeah.
>> How would this process process
differ for a TypeScript code base?
>> I mean relatively little,
because we're already running our
entire server through a build process.
Which is the challenge with TypeScript and
Node is you have to build your server.
We did that,
we could literally just rewrite this as,
hell let's try it, see what happens.
Worse that happens is
that I embarrass myself.
So it's gonna be upset by some types
I think that's because it doesn't
know about that, that's fine.
Cannot find name, anyway,
obviously TypeScript is already gonna be
pretty upset by a bunch of these things.
So anyway, you would have to go and
fix all these type errors.
But once you have done that,
everything would work just fine.
>> Tomcat won't work.
>> Thank God I'm not a Tomcat expert.
[LAUGH] I don't know how
Tomcat would play into this.
Yeah, I don't know
enough to speak to that.
I have much more familiarity
with something like Nginx.
In which case you would just probably
have Nginx be the ingress to your pod or
Kubernetes or whatever service
provider you're using there.
And then that would pool your
connections basically through this
front door of your Node front end,
middle end, server, right?
But at that point, we're just talking
about how your networking works.
Server side rendering doesn't make that
any more interesting or less interesting.
The only thing that it makes it mildly
interesting at all is basically all of
your requests to your clients
probably at some point are gonna hit
your Node front end, right?
And then those are gonna fan
out to other services in your,
Your micro-services or
however you choose to do that.
Cool.
Other questions?
>> Yeah, I can have a general just review
question between code splitting and
server side rendering and
streaming markup.
I know we've talked a lot about not
solving performance issues until they
become an actual problem to solve,
of these three solutions for
getting better performance.
I guess, how do they kind of compare
to each other in terms of like,
no deliverable results, that makes sense.
>> Yeah.
The point of code splitting
is to reduce the amount of
kilobytes that a user needs to
get the application working.
So, that's like I'm loading the homepage,
and
I have some buttons that I want the users
to be able to click as fast as possible,
that time to first interactive is
where code splitting really shines
Time to first meaningful interactive,
I don't know if that's actually a metric,
but I just invented it and
it seems really good to me.
Time to first meaningful interactive,
yeah, something like that,
that's where code splitting
is really helpful.
You're basically saying I'm delaying
making all this other stuff work
to make sure that this thing works
immediately, this is optimizing for and
these are just two strategies
to get the same thing.
That being server side rendering the
render to string or render to streaming,
your goal is to first meaningful paint,
right?
So it's not to interact if this doesn't
help interactive it might even make
interactive a tiny bit worse.
But what you're trying to do here,
is you're trying to make it so
that the user sees something
meaningful as fast as possible.
Which of those is more important,
really depends on what your
application is doing, right?
For blog post,
you don't care if it's interactive,
the people just want to read things
which this can handle just fine.
Ecommerce, yeah, you want that thing as
interactive as fast as possible because
the user clicks on it like,
they're trying to click the buy button and
it doesn't work.
And then they click it 19 times and
then they buy it 19 times,
someone's going to be upset, right?
Now speaking from experience,
or anything like that, but
that definitely happened to me,
thank you, Angular, thank you,
Brian who wrote crappy Angular,
that's a better way of putting it.
I'm kind of probably
oversimplifying a little bit, but
those are probably maybe the chief
wins from those two different things.
And you can probably, you can, you can
mix and match them a little bit to say,
all right,
we're gonna do a server-side rendering and
then send the minimum
amount of JavaScript.
In fact, a really kind of cool performance
optimization that occurred to me,
what you would do here,
let's look at our just normal index, html.
You would build two packages,
one would be here in the head
of a script tag of like,
you might even just make it directly
in here like the most critical
Jas goes here, right.
So that the user gets this
immediately right away,
you could probably then put here style,
The most critical CSS, and
then you could move this down here,
to after the user gets this afterwards,
right?
Or you can do something like this defer,
so
you can put all this stuff up here as
well, and then if you did something,
I think module has different semantics
that I'm not thinking of at the moment.
But there's a defer, and there's another
one a sync, which basically says like,
I want you to load this particular
damn time like this, don't block here.
This would be tricky to get right,
but if you could, you could basically
get the user downloading
everything as fast as possible,
but not blocking the browser
from finished rendering.
Yeah, I would have to
work a lot more on that,
cuz now we will get into a spider's
webs have a bunch of problems,
but it could be pretty cool if you could
get it right, that answer your question?
>> Yeah, no, I really appreciate it like,
the broad level perspective on use case
and just strategy so,
>> Cool.